World made up of multiple continents amd islands.
Not all of the world has been colonised, but magical creatures reside in those hidden places.
Empty space between cities/towns/villages, should have frequent points of interest like caves 
and dens etc.


Different starting zones:

Forest, Desert, Tundra, Swamp, Mountains, Coastal,

Different groups of people.
Capital cities for each different group of people.
Smaller villages and towns in the outskirts of the cities.

The desert capital city should be built inside a mesa, like the Peoples Palace of D'hara in
The Sword of Truth series, maybe tunnels to other mesas.

The swamp capital should be a sprawling tree house city.

Tundra City could be made of ice or have ice walls as defences.

Mountain capital like Minas Tirith, maybe volcano nearby, hot springs? maybe Japanese Minas Tirith
possibly Moria style halls half in the mountain too.

Coastal city could be half on land and half on floating pontoons in the sea.

Must include sky peoples capital city in the clouds, and the Merfolk city under the sea,
same for the Demonkin within a hell plane, and the Voidspawn in the Void.

First playthrough should be in the main starter area, other starter areas unlocked via progression 
through the game, maybe from reputation, maybe from a quest. Same goes for classes, at the beginning
there should only be limited choices, but as new milestones reached ingame it unlocks other classes
that can be selected at the start of the game.

Choices made during character creation decide future events, for example if the player chooses 
strength based options, then once they awake they will be offered the job with the blacksmith,
if dexterity options are chosen then work at the fletchers would be offered, if stelth options
are chosen then the player would be offered a job with the towns hunters. This should also effect
choices further along than just the starter area, not sure yet how far reaching and impactful these
differences will be.

One group of people, maybe the desert people, should be like the Imperial Order in the Sword of Truth
series; thinking that nobody should be above another, people shouldn't be proud of success, it only shows
they need to give more to the needy, depicts people as being evil with a lifetime of suffering to apease
the gods so that they will have a good afterlife. this makes people that follow their beliefs into brutes
that will do any evil to spread their words to any unbelievers. basically communism/socialism.

Another group of people, lets say the mountain men of the far north, will be inspired by the Chronicles
of Riddick, these people believe in strength over all, you keep what you kill, if you are strong enough
to kill the king that makes you the king, you like a sword that somebody has, kill them, if you can, and 
take it. this makes ruthless killers that only value the oppinion of stronger people or their equals, 
but look down on everybody else, the weak live by the grace of the strong, and they should be thankful
for whatever the strong choose to let them keep, they believe that only the strong will gain eternal
glory in the afterlife, where they contine to battle for eternity, where at the end of each day, all
the fallen rise back up where they all drink and feast, only for the eternal battle to start again the
following day (viking mythology).

Another group of people, the standard forest dwelling starter area people, should value hard work and
respect of all people, everybody has the same chances in life, you just have to work hard and you will
earn your way, family units are strong and the local community benefits from good values and social
cohesion, there by making their country as a whole productive and prosperous. these people depict 
themselfs in giant glorious statues showing the strong spirit and resolve of the valiant, showing
a great reverance of life and the light, believing in all that is good. (capitalism).

Idea about magic: magic could be made up of syllables that are unknown to the player, magic reading
skill would be required to start practicing the sounds, they would need to be read out of a magic
book each time the spell is cast. these syllables become 'learned' after they have been used to 
actively cast a spell a certain number of times, once all the syllables of a spell have been learned
then the spell can be transcribed into a personal spellbook and cast from there, once a spell has been
cast even more, then the spell has been memorised and can be added to a quick cast menu.

The personal spellbook can be an accumulation of favorite spells and stays open in the left hand,
it can be leafed through to the correct page to be able to cast the spell, other spellbooks may
contain a limited number of spells or even only one, but again must be open in the hand to be
read to cast it. Quick cast menu should make it able to allocate the memorised spells to a hotbar.

Eg keybindings: 'B' for personal spellbook then the pages can be turned with the 1-0 keys,
'Q' for quick spell menu. 'Q' changes the hotbar keys 1-0 to be memorised spells, both of these 
examples would be a toggle switch.

Campaign should be easier than all the other random challenges, campaign conclusion should take
20 - 30 hours, but then should have a secondary campaign for once you have explored the game
more in the post campaign world, in the secondary campaign there should be new challenges and
bosses, plus some returning. It should also unlock higher difficulty challenges around the
map that wouldn't be accessible until post campaign one, and after campaign two there should be
yet another, more difficult level of challenges available for the post post game, these should be
very challenging unless the player has become an acendant deity (skills level 9999) at which point
they would be trivial. There should be a few (3-5) God level bosses scattered around the world that
are hard to find, intended as a challenge for only the most overpowered characters, otherwise would
insta kill most other players, the maps to find these god bosses, and the keys to unlock their
chambers, to be found from high level side quests.

Some bosses could reappear once they have been defeated, with higher skills and attributes, even
more powerful equipment, others could have changed appearances, some corrupted or mutated or decayed,
returned from the void by the Keeper of the Dead (Name to be revised) for revenge against the player.

Resources like in mines should not be replenished, but plants should. Mines could have another branch
opened up as time progresses to allow for more collecting, but nodes shouldn't replenish. Plants grow
back naturally but will take time, other resources should follow this template but making sure to follow
logic of what would regenerate.

Insect-like aliens come out of a falling meteor, swarm across the land and rapidly multiply using human
hosts for their gestation.

Maps: When first starting, the only area on the map is going to be the starter area, when leaving the starter
area, the next largest regional area will appear as the map, fog of war shroud over places that have not been
explored, map can be zoomed in by area like in WoW, Continents > Regions > Cities. The more you explore, the
more of the available continent will be shown, grown region by region. Certain cities will have cartographers
where you can buy maps of different regions, some fully filled in (explored) others just the fog of war covered
region and its placement in relation to the rest of the explored world. Factions/races areas may not be known to
others, and so they may have their own version of "The known world" map. Only by exploring and adventuring and
buying up maps can all of the possible areas and points of interest be found, some special places will not show
on a map unless certain quest markers have been passed, or certain maps been bought/found, these are going to be
the end game places of interest, usually requiring puzzles and riddles to be solved, guardians to be slain or
otherwise dealt with, environmental hazards to be overcome, and special keys to have been collected.


Game name TBD:

Timeless Beneath Divinity
Time Before Darkness
Travel Beyond Destiny
Three Blind Dragons
The Brave Dreamers





Ressurection: Maybe instead of priests doing the revival, there could be ancient sites that predate the current
civilisation that nobody knows who made them, they just work. what they do is ressurect any soul that dies in a radius
around them, because of this cities sprang up around them because of the security that they proovide. These ancient
monuments will be found all over the world in the cities of each of the races, being holy sites for most, or sometimes
they could be looked at as evil and those locals could have tried to destroy them but failed. These ancient sites
could also appear in the wild in deserted places, or ruins of failed civilisations, maybe even guarded by dragons or
the origin race that created them. Resurrection monloliths could look like a well with crossed arches over the top,
with steps that go to the middle from the edges, when resurrected the player rises from the depths and floats on the
waters surface until they step out of it, the water is silvery like quicksilver and solid to stand on.

The Origin Creator Race: Ancient civilisation that built many places of power and other great constructions, think like
ancient aliens, these creators would be god-like entities that many races worship, though they are generally aloof there
could be some rogue creators that encourage the worship and offer favours for their followers, some good, some bad.
They could have created the different races as a competition to see whose race would become the most advanced, or most
dominant, maybe each race had a different creator or maybe there was only one that made different projects. Through
exploration and investigation there will be clues to the origin race discoverable during the playthrough, eventually
resulting in meeting one or more creators, maybe even confronting them and battling them. The creators could be mortal
but with great powers and extra long life, not really immortal and all powerful, but just like their creations, they could
have differnt personalities and goals, they could have differnt innate powers unique and individual to each of the creators,
like fire or ice or something, but still have common abilities like creation powers theat manifest their thoughts into reality.
One of the creators could have healing ability and it was that one that created the Ressurection Monoliths.



Races:

Otterfolk
Foxkin
Cat people
lizardfolk
bird/eagle people
humans
elves
dwarves
giants
Merfolk











