A Game that should be:

Scrolls like:

Open world, story driven, player choices change the world around them,
many different 'endings' to be discovered and factions to meet

Souls like:

Dynamic combat that is both challenging and engaging, death is to be expected

Plus my own inspiration:

Constructable houses, towns, and cities, as long as appropriate reputaition level
No player level, power being determined by skill levels, item quality, and player ability
Deliberately impossible boss fights, until you return later
Random boss encounters, with various triggers, each playthrough will be unique
Certain character creation aspects not available until world milestones reached in a playthrough
Players able to become rediculously overpowered by meticulous training
The player isn't the only 'main character' but hears of their exploits, maybe encounter them as 
end bosses/side quest bosses




IDEA DUMP:



Insert GAME Here

Fantasy RPG, Single player

No level scaling, no leveled areas.  Multiple Biomes and starting locations.

Distinctive monster spawns for each biome. Wolves in forest, Mammoth In Tundra etc.
Low leveled creatures usually prey, high leveled usually predator.
Mix of low and high level spawns around all locations. Roaming ‘bosses’.
Extremely high level “Challenge” spawns in select locations and some random chance encounters. 
Eg. Skeleton Lord in a scary looking cave in the starter area intended to come back to later, 
or whoops a dragon just appeared fight or flee. Encounters can be skipped/missed and aren’t always there.

Skills are leveled up by using them, enough skill ups cause a level up which boosts certain stats 
based on which skills were leveled up. Eg. Used Athletics, Swimming, Running = Stamina points at 
level up. Used Mining, Blacksmithing, Woodcutting = Strength points at level up. Plus a base HP 
increase each level.

“Fitness Level” Doing physically demanding things (Mining, Running etc) Increases Fitness level, 
doing sedentary things (Riding Horse/Carridge, Reading, Brewing potions) Decreases fitness level. 
Starts at 0, when in the + get bonus to run speed, stamina, jump height etc, when in – get penalty 
to the same.

Food/Drink. Not staying well fed and hydrated will give penalty to stamina/life(hp)/mana(mp) may 
cause death if it goes on too long. Food and drink provided in starter locations. Heat drains
hydration much faster as does exertion and encumberance.

Sleep. Earn a well rested bonus for sleeping regularly, penalty if sleep is missed for too long. 
Extra bonuses/penalties based on comfort level and how well fed and hydrated when sleep is initiated.

Warm/Cold effect the character, wearing appropriate clothing helps to mitigate said issues, as does
keeping hydrated and avoiding mid day sun/freezing night temperatures. Being wet in the cold is bad,
but a benefit in the heat, still not a good idea to sleep wet though.

Encumbrance. Based on Strength stat, higher can carry more. If overburdened, can’t pick anything
else up, movement speed is slowed (not unreasonably) by % of max carry weight carried. 
Magic bags of holding available later on to reduce weight of things contained within. 
(different weight reduction, different capacity. Perfect bags of quantum holding have 100% 
weight reduction and no capacity limit, bags do have their own weight which varies on capacity/size 
of the bag eg. holds upto 100 @ 50% reduction = (weight of items stored within / 2) + (bag weight) 10.
meaning total max weight carried = 60, the quantum bag will have a fixed weight eg. 15 but infinite 
storage) Bags can all be labeled to help with inventory management, and stored in other containers
as a bag full of stuff. other containers (like chests) still have a maximum capacity (in weight) and
can also be labeled.

“Traits” acquired through repeated styles of play earn achievements and special bonuses/penalties. 
Eg. regularly staying up late into the night grants ‘Night Owl’ Giving bonus to skill ups between 
00:00-04:00hrs but reduces stamina before 10:00hrs. Or, regularly travelling around at maximum 
encumbrance grants ‘Pack Mule’ Giving increased speed at maximum carry weight but increased 
food/drink drain while at maximum encumbrance.

Starter Area. Small village with basic facilities, encouraged to stay and work the field but 
allowed to venture out in the world, no tutorial, starter village has beds and gives food and 
water and coin for participation in mundane tasks, planting, harvesting, hunting, fetching. 
Good way to skill up early. When death happens, spawn back at home in bed, a friendly villager 
saved you before it was too late, death skill/stat loss are less than normal, no gold lost.

Death. When death occurs suffer stat/skill loss at random eg. -5 to blacksmithing -1 to strength. 
Also lose a portion of gold (% based, also has a max cap) as a resurrection ‘tax’ and resurrect 
in the city in the Infirmary. The gold goes to the priest in charge to facilitate keeping everybody 
well, the skill/stat loss is due to being momentarily dead. Items are not lost due to the body
being teleported and resurrected. Certain places and encounters should have true death (marked by
a special symbol on the hud), no resurrection available, when this occurs last autosave is loaded
(should be well before the places or encounters that have true death, where there is chance to 
travel away from said risk, therefor avoiding 'bricking' runs)

Quests should be meaningful and long with many stages and travelling over a long distance, 
no mundane fetch quests (with some exceptions for low level or low reputation) and even some 
pretend fetch quests to honor the player, eg. Farmer who says he needs help with gathering 
turnips from his field, recognizes you as an adventurer (reputation based) and thanks you for 
your service and gives some coin as tribute to your hard work (quest over, no work, all reward)

Player can get a jobs eg, logging, smithing, bartending, chef, etc. where the player will fulfill 
requests or complete minigames. Other jobs include travelling trader (carry x goods from a-b. or 
travel to b to collect goods and bring them back to a) Jobs should be less valuable than adventuring 
but be safer.
Jobs should be available as a way to earn money and level skills, mundane repetative work, but
a consistent way to grow, provided you meet the minimum requirements to get the job.

Certain people in the world will be able to provide training for skills/stats (for a price/quest reward)
but only up to their skill level. Player can provide training to certain npc’s in skills to earn coin, 
but only up to the players skill level, only a certain number of times per npc, per week. 
Increasing their capability in skills can increase their quality/quantity of goods/services they offer. 
Eg. train a blacksmith to be better, blacksmith has better weapons/tools/armor for sale, at a 
discounted rate (capped % discount at certain amount of skill ups)

Meaningful choices, certain reputation gains and thresholds will have a positive/negative impact 
on other factions/groups. Eg. complete quest for faction A, reputation with faction A becomes level 2 
(see reputation scale) also increases reputation with faction B, but decreases reputation with 
faction Z and seals off a quest with faction Y

Towns/Cities can be developed if provided with enough resources (either by player or npc’s over time) 
eg. once town has 5000 wood and 7000 stone, town upgraded and more buildings are present, more people, 
additional merchants, merchants have more stock/available coin. Settlement level 1 Village, 2 Town, 3 
City (subject to change, just an example) increasing resources needed for each development level.
Player can become leader of town/city if enough reputation/contribution points achieved, leaders get 
coin and discount and other privileges. Potentially earning way to becoming King or Emperor.

Player can either build or buy a house, building can be in certain areas when certain reputation 
thresholds are met, buying a house will be in the city where reputation has been earned. 
Until build/buy is available, player can stay in inns/guild/barracks, or camping as a last resort,
camping should have negative rested bonus, rested penalties, unless the player has a high enough
camping skill and quality camping gear. Player should still be able to camp with no skill or 
equipment, but the penalties will be severe. Bought houses can't be renovated or have their furniture
removed or destroyed, limited slots to add select features available. player built houses offer much
more customization and freedom, a plot of land would be purchaced and then the player can build there,
using parts to build the house (think soulmask, valheim, palworld) in any arrangement as long as it is
within the plot boundary. player built houses can have any furniture freely added and removed, including
workstations and storage, some restrictions apply eg. building a forge requires stone floor and tile
roof, as opposed to flamable materials. workstations recieve crafting time/quality bonuses if the room
is set up to suit said craft eg. not all in one room with bed etc. forge area should be separate to 
woodwork area, beds etc.

Combat skills. Some skills also improve other skills eg. Increasing short sword skill also grants 
some progression to Sword skill, large sword skills also grant some progression to greatsword skill, 
shortbow skill also grants progression to longbow skill, longbow skill to warbow skill. Blacksmithing
would increase mace/hammer skills.


Character creation, player is in a dream, scenarios play out, asking what they would do, eg. your 
sister is being attacked by a wolf, do you: call for help, punch it, throw a rock at it, hit it 
with a stick, run away. These questions build a profile to determine skill distribution/class. 
Primary skills start at 10, secondary start at 5, all other start at 0.
Stat points (strength, dexterity, intelligence) are determined by the classification of 
primary/secondary skills. eg. primary skills of thrown and mining would give +1dex and +1 
strength respectively.

After dream sequence, awake in bed and get called for breakfast saying you are going to be late 
and that you should make yourself presentable before you come downstairs. Player then looks in
the mirror and starts the appearance editor to make their character look the way they want.
No type 1/2 body or pronoun BS, no hairstyles that dont fit the appropriate gender, manly men,
feminine women. Body type will be average for all players at the start, player can get fat or thin,
strong muscles or lean, by their choices in game. eg. eat a lot more than needed - fat, less than
needed - thin, a lot of physical activity - muscles. low physical activity - lean. could end up as
fat and strong, could end up as thin and frail. appropriate stat bonus/penalties apply.

Items: All base weapons/armor can be used as long as strength dexterity requirements are met, 
skill level of each classification of weapon determines damage multiplier and stamina used. Items 
have base stats that are effected by the stat multipliers eg. sword damage = 10, str = 100 gives
10% bonus, 200 str gives 20% bonus damage. Higher quality weapons have higher base damage numbers
making the bonus a bigger bonus. 10% of 10 = 1, total = 11. 10% of 100 = 10, total 110. higher 
modifiers give cumulatively more bonus too. eg 1000 str = 100% bonus damage. Titanium greatsword 
damage = 500, gives total damage of 1000. other stats can also factor into the calculation. for
example, str 1000, sword 1000, and weapon base damage 1000 ends up being. 1000 +100% = 2000 +100% =
4000. this makes it imperative to train all stats linked to the weapon to make it as powerful as
possible. Idealy numbers getting to rediculous multipliers towards end game. eg strength 9500 = 950%
sword skill 7200 = 720%, base weapon 6430. total damage is 6430 + 950% = 61,085 + 720% = 439,812 dam.
Magical Items have no level requirements, can be used without identifying them, but there are
risks of magical blowback, identifying can only be done by a skilled enough enchanter, can be
the player if the enchanting skill meets the minimum requirement.
Disenchanting does not destroy the weapon, just removes the enchantment, which can either be turned 
into enchanting materials, or stored on enchanting parchment for later use (enchanting skill check 
required for successful disenchant eg. level 35 enchanting, level 25 item, success. Level 35 
enchanting, level 50 item, fail)

Spellweaving: Player must have high enough level spellweaving skill plus high enough level other 
magic skill to make new spells. Eg, spellweaving 20, elemental 30, look through elemental spellbook, 
use any spell lower than level 20 as a base, then modify parameters. Eg. fireball (level 10) 20 damage, 
5 burning per second/2 seconds. Turn into fireball (level 20), 30 damage, 2 burning per second/10 
seconds. Magic affixes can be raised/lowered for each part of each spell, resulting spell level will 
change depending on parameters, cannot make a spell higher than spellweaving skill, cannot use a spell 
if the associated magic skill not high enough. Eg. spellweaving 50 can make level 50 spell, but if 
elemental skill is 30, can’t use the level 50 spell until elemental is 50. Spellweaving skill is the 
requirement for both the spell in and spell out, the particular magic skill is only for accessing that 
skills available spells.

Gathering/Crafting skill level requirements for each new material/type/advancement. Eg. 
Mining Copper(10)>Tin(15)>Iron(30)	Smelting Copper(10)>Tin(15)>Bronze(20)>Iron(30)>Steel(40)	
Blacksmithing Copper(10)>Bronze(20)>Iron(30)>Steel(40). 
Maybe spread advancements out more, so that each stage feels more valuable.
Initial levels of professions must be learned from a trainer, then once at level 10 can start 
developing skills by use.

Realms. A heavenly/sky realm with angelic beings, an underworld/hellscape with demonic entities, 
an undersea kingdom with merfolk. Accessible with portals? Or maybe free to explore eg. fly on a 
flying mount into the clouds to reach the sky domain. Void domain only opens during story
progression, once reached will unlock void character creation options

Dungeons: A many floored(100?1000?) procedurally generated dungeon(descending)(like Diablo 1) with 
increasing danger and difficulty (and rewards) with a boss monster (minions too) every 5-10 levels 
(sword art online) and special bosses at milestones (20, 50, 80 etc) regular traps and environmental 
hazards (lava etc), Death penalty increased (skills/stats decrease). (Repeatable, each time the player
leaves the dungeon all mobs and some bosses respawn, can restart from milestones reached or start 
at the beginning again, like the mines in stardew valley) 
(true death zone, autosaves in the entrance hall where exit is still possible, milestone levels 
autosave and an exit portal appears)

An evil wizards tower (Quest?) with many(50?) floors (Ascending) of magical puzzles and traps, 
increasingly challenging combat and waves of monsters to defend against (halls of torment, vampire
 survivors) Death penalty increased (skills/stats decrease). (true death zone,autosaves in the 
 entrance hall where exit is still possible, milestone levels autosave and an exit portal appears)

Labyrinth (Quest?), a sprawling maze all on one level, with many dead ends and lots of traps and 
hazards, random encounters and boss chambers (dungeons of the unforgiven), hidden doors and fake 
walls, sliding walls and other puzzles. Goal is to reach the center and retrieve the treasure after
 defeating the minotaur, then find a way out. Death penalty increased (skills/stats decrease). 
 (true death zone, autosaves in the entrance hall, no milestones, no portals, some side passages 
 allow exit from the labyrinth, and once opened allow re-entry through said passages)

Special crafting materials and other resources only found in the dungeons, some only found on the 
lowest/highest floors, or on boss monsters.
